CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

# Contributing to the Project

## Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed before getting started:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js / npm](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Java 21+](https://adoptium.net/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- Maven (or use the included `mvnw` wrapper — no install needed)

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
   make check-deps # Check if you have all dependencies installed.
```

**Windows**
```
where docker   # v20+
where npm      # v9+
where java     # v21+
where git      # v2+
docker info    # just checks if Docker Desktop is running
```

## Cloning the project

1. Clone the repository and navigate into it:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Paul-Austin-Oswego-CSC480-HCI521/-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public
   cd ./-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public
   ```

## Installation

2. Install dependencies and run the project:

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
   make setup
```

Then start the project:

Open three separate terminals:

```bash
   make dev-mongodb    # Spinning up mongodb database container
   make dev-frontend   # Terminal 1 — Frontend
   make dev-backend    # Terminal 2 — Backend
```

**Windows**

Setup Mongodb Container

```bash
   docker rm -f csc480-mongodb-container
   cd backend && docker build -t csc480-mongodb -f assets/Dockerfile .
   docker run --name csc480-mongodb-container -p 27017:27017 -d csc480-mongodb
   timeout /t 5
   cd ..
   docker cp csc480-mongodb-container:/home/mongodb/certs/truststore.p12 ./backend/finish/src/main/liberty/config/resources/security
   docker cp csc480-mongodb-container:/home/mongodb/certs/truststore.p12 ./backend/worklog/src/main/liberty/config/resources/security
   docker start csc480-mongodb-container
```

Terminal 1 — Frontend:

```bash
   cd ./frontend
   npm install
   npm run dev
```

Terminal 2 — Backend:

```bash
   cd ./backend/finish
   .\mvnw.cmd liberty:dev
```

## Endpoints

Frontend
- [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

Backend
- finish backend - [http://localhost:9080](http://localhost:9080)
- worklog backend - [http://localhost:9081](http://localhost:9081)

Backend documentation 
- finish backend doc - [http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui](http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui)
- worklog backend doc - [http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui](http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui)

---

## Running Version Releases

During weekly sprints, the full stack team will tag a release when ready.

1. Download the desired releases by going to [Link](https://github.com/Paul-Austin-Oswego-CSC480-HCI521/-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public/releases)

2. Open the folder in your code editor

**Mac/Linux**
```
   make clean
```

**Windows**
```
   docker rm -fv csc480-mongodb-container
   docker rmi -f csc480-mongodb
```

Then follow the [Installation](#installation).

---

## Writing/Running Tests

From the `backend/finish` directory:

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
cd ./backend/finish
./mvnw test      # unit tests only
./mvnw verify    # unit + integration tests
```

**Windows**

```bash
cd ./backend/finish
.\mvnw.cmd test      # unit tests only
.\mvnw.cmd verify    # unit + integration tests
```

**Unit tests** are named `*Test.java`.  
**Integration tests** are named `*IT.java`.

---
## Backend

Check out the OpenAPI UI to explore and test the backend endpoints:
http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui/

---

## Issues and Pull Requests

We have templates for creating issues and pull requests — please use them.

When opening a pull request, include a concise description of the feature or fix being added for reviewers.

**To run a pull request locally:**

1. Ensure you are on main and up to date:

   ```bash
   git checkout main
   git pull
   ```

2. Fetch and checkout the PR branch:

   ```bash
   git fetch origin
   git checkout <branch-name>
   ```

   > The branch name can be found on the GitHub PR page.

3. Run `make setup` as needed if dependencies have changed.

---

## Troubleshooting Tips
   > Feel free to update this if you have troubleshooting tips

1. **Port 9080(or)3000 already in use / updates are not reflected**
   
   A previous Liberty process may still be running in the background. Kill it:
```bash
   kill -9 $(lsof -t -i :9080)
   kill -9 $(lsof -t -i :3000)
```


## Notes for Developers

- The `Makefile` is a convenience tool. Feel free to run the commands inside it manually or add new targets that benefit the team.
- GitHub Actions workflows may need to be updated as the folder structure or system-level configurations change.
- Please let the team know if you have any issues setting up

Commit message:

2 things. 1-- made the notifications endpoint. That should function in the same way that CrewMember.java and crewService.java does. 2-- made a 'older version of mongo' MongoProducer so people with old processors (myself) can run the project comfortably. Of course, assuming not that many people will be needing it, I updated the CONTRIBUTING.md with instructions for getting it up and running, in case the need it.

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

# Contributing to the Project

## Prerequisites

Make sure you have the following installed before getting started:

- [Git](https://git-scm.com/)
- [Node.js / npm](https://nodejs.org/)
- [Java 21+](https://adoptium.net/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)
- Maven (or use the included `mvnw` wrapper — no install needed)

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
   make check-deps # Check if you have all dependencies installed.
```

**Windows**
```
where docker   # v20+
where npm      # v9+
where java     # v21+
where git      # v2+
docker info    # just checks if Docker Desktop is running
```

## Cloning the project

1. Clone the repository and navigate into it:

   ```bash
   git clone https://github.com/Paul-Austin-Oswego-CSC480-HCI521/-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public
   cd ./-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public
   ```

## Installation

2. Install dependencies and run the project:

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
   make setup
```

Then start the project:

Open three separate terminals:

```bash
   make dev-mongodb    # Spinning up mongodb database container
   make dev-frontend   # Terminal 1 — Frontend
   make dev-backend    # Terminal 2 — Backend
```

**Windows**

Setup Mongodb Container

```bash
   docker rm -f csc480-mongodb-container
   cd backend && docker build -t csc480-mongodb -f assets/Dockerfile .
   docker run --name csc480-mongodb-container -p 27017:27017 -d csc480-mongodb
   timeout /t 5
   cd ..
   docker cp csc480-mongodb-container:/home/mongodb/certs/truststore.p12 ./backend/finish/src/main/liberty/config/resources/security
   docker cp csc480-mongodb-container:/home/mongodb/certs/truststore.p12 ./backend/worklog/src/main/liberty/config/resources/security
   docker start csc480-mongodb-container
```

Terminal 1 — Frontend:

```bash
   cd ./frontend
   npm install
   npm run dev
```

Terminal 2 — Backend:

```bash
   cd ./backend/finish
   .\mvnw.cmd liberty:dev
```
Terminal 2 — continued:: IF YOU HAVE AN OLD PROCESSOR, you may need to specify your own version of Mongo. (the "name" field can be whatever you want. 4.4 seems to work on processors at least 8 years old.)
Find this dependency in your POM.xml
```xml
   <dependency>
      <groupId>org.mongodb</groupId>
      <artifactId>mongodb-driver-sync</artifactId>
      <version>4.11.1</version>
   </dependency>
```
Make sure it matches what is listed above^^^
Then, run the following:
```bash
   cd ./backend/finish
   docker run -d -p 27017:27017 --name inventory-mongo mongo:4.4
   mvn clean liberty:dev
```
If your POST does not work, try this:
```bash
cd ./backend/finish/src/main/java/io/openliberty/guides/mongo
ls
```
You should see MongoProducer and MongoProducerSWAP. One of them is commented out completely. Switch them, then try again:
```bash
   cd ./backend/finish
   docker run -d -p 27017:27017 --name inventory-mongo mongo:4.4
   mvn clean liberty:dev
```
If that does not work, then either you have a VPN running, or your machine supports neither the old Mongo version, nor the latest, and you might want to consider asking an AI to help you out with your precise machine. Ask Landon on discord for help as a last resort. 

## Endpoints

Frontend
- [http://localhost:3000](http://localhost:3000)

Backend
- finish backend - [http://localhost:9080](http://localhost:9080)
- worklog backend - [http://localhost:9081](http://localhost:9081)

Backend documentation 
- finish backend doc - [http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui](http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui)
- worklog backend doc - [http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui](http://localhost:9081/openapi/ui)

---

## Running Version Releases

During weekly sprints, the full stack team will tag a release when ready.

1. Download the desired releases by going to [Link](https://github.com/Paul-Austin-Oswego-CSC480-HCI521/-OZ-CSC-480-HCI-521-Spring-2026-Public/releases)

2. Open the folder in your code editor

**Mac/Linux**
```
   make clean
```

**Windows**
```
   docker rm -fv csc480-mongodb-container
   docker rmi -f csc480-mongodb
```

Then follow the [Installation](#installation).

---

## Writing/Running Tests

From the `backend/finish` directory:

**Mac/Linux**

```bash
cd ./backend/finish
./mvnw test      # unit tests only
./mvnw verify    # unit + integration tests
```

**Windows**

```bash
cd ./backend/finish
.\mvnw.cmd test      # unit tests only
.\mvnw.cmd verify    # unit + integration tests
```

**Unit tests** are named `*Test.java`.  
**Integration tests** are named `*IT.java`.

---
## Backend

Check out the OpenAPI UI to explore and test the backend endpoints:
http://localhost:9080/openapi/ui/

---

## Issues and Pull Requests

We have templates for creating issues and pull requests — please use them.

When opening a pull request, include a concise description of the feature or fix being added for reviewers.

**To run a pull request locally:**

1. Ensure you are on main and up to date:

   ```bash
   git checkout main
   git pull
   ```

2. Fetch and checkout the PR branch:

   ```bash
   git fetch origin
   git checkout <branch-name>
   ```

   > The branch name can be found on the GitHub PR page.

3. Run `make setup` as needed if dependencies have changed.

---

## Troubleshooting Tips
   > Feel free to update this if you have troubleshooting tips

1. **Port 9080(or)3000 already in use / updates are not reflected**
   
   A previous Liberty process may still be running in the background. Kill it:
```bash
   kill -9 $(lsof -t -i :9080)
   kill -9 $(lsof -t -i :3000)
```


## Notes for Developers

- The `Makefile` is a convenience tool. Feel free to run the commands inside it manually or add new targets that benefit the team.
- GitHub Actions workflows may need to be updated as the folder structure or system-level configurations change.
- Please let the team know if you have any issues setting up
